# Sprint Challenge: Authentication - Dad Jokes

## Description

In this challenge, you build a real wise-guy application. _Dad jokes_ are all the rage these days. Currently the application is trying to receive some `Dad Jokes`, however we are locked out.

## Instructions

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This is an individual assessment, please work on it alone. It is an opportunity to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

If the instructions are not clear, please seek support from your TL and Instructor on Slack.

The Minimum Viable Product must be completed in three hours.

Follow these steps to set up and work on your project:

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project.
- [ ] Add your _Team Lead_ as collaborator on Github.
- [ ] Clone your forked version of the Repository.
- [ ] Create a new Branch on the clone: git checkout -b `firstName-lastName`.
- [ ] Implement the project on this Branch, committing changes regularly.
- [ ] Push commits: git push origin `firstName-lastName`.

Follow these steps for completing your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge `firstName-lastName` branch into `master` on your fork. **Please don't make Pull Requests against Lambda's repository**.
- [ ] Please don't merge your own pull request.
- [ ] Add your _Team Lead_ as a Reviewer on the Pull-request
- [ ] Your _Team Lead_ will count the challenge as done by merging the branch into _master_.

## Commits

Commit your code regularly and use descriptive messages. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code) and your Team Lead.

## Self-Study/Essay Questions

Demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering the following free-form questions. Edit this document to include your answers after each question. Make sure to leave a blank line above and below your answer so it is clear and easy to read by your project manager.

- [ ] What is the purpose of using _sessions_?

* Sessions allow the server to store info about the client. Some of the more common cases can be to store authentication info so users don't have to log in every time they access the site.

- [ ] What does bcrypt do to help us store passwords in a secure manner.

* Bcrypt hashes the password into a long, intricate string that is incredibly difficult to reverse or takes too long to. It also protects our password if an intruder breaches into the database as they need the original string in order to access the user's account. Salting adds an extra layer of security by adding additional random characters to the original password, and then password gets hashed.

- [ ] What does bcrypt do to slow down attackers?

* As mentioned, salting is added to the password. Afterwards, Bcrypt hashes the password using a highly complex algorithm to create a long password full of random characters. By adding more rounds, bcrypt continues to hash the password an n amount of times. So the more complex the original password and the more rounds, the longer it will take for attackers to find the password.

- [ ] What are the three parts of the JSON Web Token?

* The JWT are composed of the header (type of algorithm, and type of token), the payload (a property of the user's credentials, some kind of ID associated with the credentials, and the date the token is issued), and the signature (generated by base64 encoding the header and payload together, and signing with a secret key).

## Minimum Viable Product

Implement an User Authentication System. Hash user's passwords before saving them to the database. Use `JSON Web Tokens` or `Sessions and Cookies` to persist authentication across requests.

- [ ] Implement the `register` and `login` functionality inside `/auth/auth-router.js`. A `user` has `username` and `password`. Both properties are required.
- [ ] Implement the `authenticate` middleware inside `/auth/authenticate-middleware.js`.
- [ ] Write a **minimum o 2 tests** per API endpoint. Write more tests if you have time.

**Note**: the database already has the users table, but if you run into issues, the migrations are available.

## Stretch Problem

Build a front end to show the jokes.

- [ ] Add a React client that connects to the API and has pages for `Sign Up`, `Sign In` and showing a list of `Jokes`.
- [ ] Once you have the functionality down, style it!
